hey welcome to another episode of coffee
break with pam
today i want to answer one question
i am asked quite often which is how do i
start in writing a comprehensive
marketing plan
what is the preparation step that you
need to take to make sure that you get
yourself ready before crafting your plan
after this short video you'll completely
understand the list of a question that
you should ask
and that you need to do before you start
your planning effort
by the way i created a three-part series
on how to create a marketing plan
look for best
marketing plan and templates in my
youtube channel all right now it's on
the top so you can see that but again
you can basically type the best
marketing plan and templates common pm
dinner you should be able to find it
by the way my coffee break is a series
that's syndicated to linkedin
facebook youtube and twitter
if you miss any of my live streaming
like now you can always see the archive
of recorded video on the pmdinner
youtube channel
if you like the way i explain things
please give us a thumbs up and subscribe
to my channel and comment below love
love to hear from you all right by the
way you can see like it's kind of empty
in my background i'm actually moving we
are in the process of selling the house
but you know what a lot of work but it's
going to be a brand new chapter i'm
looking forward to it
let's get started about what are some of
the steps you need to take before you
start creating your comprehensive
marketing plan
you know what many marketers are doers
like me
and our minds are racing all the time
and thinking about how to plan how to
get things done quickly cheaply and
effectively
the planning process usually starts with
a list of a question that you should ask
yourself to get ready
so think about how you have to plan
the truth is literally planning for the
sake of planning
and but that's the important part right
before you plan to cook a holiday feast
you need to identify you know the
delicious the delicious dishes that you
want to serve
right so that's a planning to plan your
holiday feast you should do the same
thing actually for the uh holiday i'm
sorry marketing plan as well
and
they are several questions you need to
ask essentially a great plan is to
address your stakeholders and your
audience's questions what kind of
questions do they have you address them
at the same time you provide your
recommendation in terms of what you need
to do
and here is the holy grail of a
preparation process
and the cross-bounding questions to ask
and i divide it into a three major
buckets and i'm gonna go through that
with you
number one
is what is objective of your plan
number two
what
is your audience for your plan
and number three
what is the overall
concerns of your audience
right so these are the three major
buckets that i want to go through
so i start with number one what is the
objective of your plan
and a lot of time you created a plan for
a reason
you are either looking for additional
budget and resources or you are created
to align with everybody all the
counterparts within your company or even
you create a plan to breathe your agency
partners
so understand your objective is going to
help you determine what type of
questions you're going to ask and also
what elements need to be incorporated
into your plan
number two
who is the audience
of your plan are you creating the plan
for the c-suite and the senior
management are you creating the plan
just for your direct manager
or you are creating a plot a plan to
rally
everybody which is your internal
stakeholders from the product team down
to the pr down to actually your sales
team
or you're just creating your plan just
you know for the marketing peers so who
is the audience you may have a multiple
audiences that is totally fine but make
sure that you have segments that address
all their needs and that takes a little
bit of time but in general all of them
have a common ques a common asks and
also common concerns and that's what i
want to talk about as a next one
which is what are the concern of your
internal stakeholders and your audience
there are many by the way and i'm going
to go through some of the major
questions that your internal
stakeholders and audience usually ask
number one
what is the overall competitive
landscape or the trend specific insight
it doesn't matter it's a c-suite or a
product team they always want to know
hey what's going on outside of our
company what are some of the marketing
trends that we need to be aware of what
are the some things that the competitors
are doing we are not doing or we are
also doing say better
right so share some of that insights
with your internal stakeholders to
educate them what is going on outside
your marketing organization and also in
the competitive landscape
number two how do we measure success
what are the primary metrics and the
secondary metrics how do
how do the marketing organizations uh
say from the corporate marketing team
down to the product marketing team down
to a geo marketing team how do we
measure our success
and what are some of the metrics
in general the senior management would
like to know how you measure your
success
number three
what strategies and key tactics are
needed to accomplish our business goal
in the marketing organizations there are
stuff we do for the marketing outreach
to build the brain awareness and to
retain the customers to also create
potentially new prospects right
so those are objectives in terms of
getting the new customer to achieve the
business goal or bring additional
revenue
right
and so you understand your business
objective and what are some of the
strategy you set up to support that
objective is what
and the strategy and tactics are how
how are you going to do
you know from marketing's perspective to
achieve that business goals and uh and
also the revenue goal right so identify
identify some of the strategy and also
key tactics that you will do and trying
to find that balance you know you don't
want to give them a laundry list of the
marketing tactics that you would do
right so trying to find that balance in
terms of the strategic initiative that
you want to share and also the all the
detailed things that you will do see if
you can find that balance to share with
your management and stakeholder
uh in terms of
the the marketing campaign so the
marketing plans that you will accomplish
right so it cannot be too high level it
cannot be too detailed so that is the
challenging in terms of creating a plan
if you are the global company a lot of
time you have a priority countries and
languages
obviously you cannot market to every
single country and also every and then
and create content for every single
language so what are some of the
priorities that you have to take into
account right and that usually
associated with revenue right and also
the the the new segment or new area you
want to tackle in the next five years in
general country and language priority
has a lot to do with the revenue goal
and if you break down the revenue by
countries you should be able to align a
lot of your marketing country priority
and language priority along with that
revenue but sometimes the existing
revenue will not take into account the
new territory you want to go after
in that case you need to understand the
new territories a new region you want to
go after in next five years to take and
to determine what are the future content
you need to create to support that
so that is country and language priority
the next one has a lot to do with
content
right
so what kind of content you're going to
support
launches campaigns and also the sales
team
and uh
this is especially important
for uh b2b marketing and also the
products and services that you sell that
has long purchased cycle
so in order to engage with your prospect
you need to think through in terms of
what content is needed to make sure that
happens
as a part of the purchase journey right
the same as the content is messaging
right before you create content you also
need to know what is the talking points
what are some of the key differentiators
and also the messaging pillars that you
want to dial up or dial down
many products have tons of features that
product marketers would like to actually
ask the
marketers to
speak about
if you have a 100 features you cannot
talk about 100 features you have to
focus on 305 and then dial that up
that's the base that's the base of your
messaging framework so creating
messaging is super important
so if you are interested in messaging
and also messaging framework i actually
created a 32-minute webinar
how to create the messaging framework
that resonates it's a diy and i also
attach templates that you can use so
check out that video
there are some additional questions i
want to share with you in terms of what
uh
your stakeholders will ask for example
what challenges will you encounter in
implementing say content marketing or
any kind of marketing effort right
nowadays the digital uh takes the lead
if you do any digital marketing that
means the banking
system needs to be integrated for you to
track
like the cus the prospects moving from
one stage to another
in order to actually implement the
digital journey or
tracking the touch points you need to
make sure the back end is integrated
right so if that is not integrated then
that's a challenge you need to actually
communicate that as a part of your plan
because to make sure the back is
integrated it does take resource and the
budget to make that happen
so the challenge is you need to talk
about that as a part of your marketing
plan
if you try to align your marketing plan
with your team with the agency it's very
important to identify who should do what
and when
and that's kind of like a detailed plan
it also depends on what kind of
marketing efforts and also marketing
recommendations that you are presenting
you need to talk about who will be doing
what again at the higher level is not
sharing the game chart in terms of who
is doing what in the detail timeline can
you bring that up make that a little bit
easier for people to understand
if you're trying to align the
stakeholders
lastly how much money do you need if you
want to create a plan great great great
but marketing is not free you need to
share with your management and also your
manager and the sales team in terms of
how much money you will spend or how
much money is required to do your
marketing effort
in addition one last question you do
need to talk to your stakeholders to
find out what other concerns they may
have
right like i said
crafting a marketing plan
on one hand you need to share your
recommendation what you think your
company needs to do
the other thing another purpose is to
address your stakeholders questions
ultimately you need to find a balance to
do that
you need to answer your questions at the
same time showcase what you will do to
make
the marketing outreach and also your
company successful
i hope you enjoy today's coffee break
don't forget to like comment and
subscribe and join me next time for a
brand new topic
it's wonderful to see you like i said
have any questions comment
and subscribe below love love love to
hear from you